All right, let's get to it.
We're going to start to build out these subclasses of request validation error and database connection
error.
As we are building these two classes, there's going to be a little bit of strange code.
We're going to mostly just kind of blaze through these two implementations because as soon as we start
using them, you are going to understand what is going on as are building them.
You're probably going to say, Wait, what?
But don't worry, as soon as we use them, it's going to be really clear.
Okay.
So let's get to it.
Back inside, my editor are going to find my CRC directory and inside there I'm going to make a new
folder called Errors.
Inside this directory, we're going to write out all these different custom subclasses of error.
So the first one I'm going to make is request validation airports.
Then at the very top, I'm going to first import validation error from Express Dash validator.
Validation error is a type.
It is describing the type that comes back whenever we do a validation attempt using express validator.
So it's essentially a type that refers to this kind of object right here, something that has a message,
a parameter, also technically a field and one other property I can't remember off the top of my head.
The reason that we are importing this is that when we start to build the subclass at some point in time
we're going to have to receive a list of validation errors like in other words, the actual reasons
that the request failed validation.
So we are importing this type to make sure that we can describe the requirements or the errors that
are going to be assigned to our subclass.
After that, I'm going to export a new class called Request.
Validation error.
And we're going to extend.
Air.
So again, we are building our own custom implementation of an air.
Then inside of here, I'm going to define the constructor.
Function.
I'm going to say that this is going to need to be coupled with a list of validation errors.
So again, that is why we import this type at the very top.
So I'm going to write out right here.
Private errors is going to be validation, error array.
Let's break this down really quickly.
I'm using the keyword private right here because we want to take this first property and assign it as
a property to the overall class.
So writing out the word private right there is 100% equivalent to writing this.
Errors, equal errors.
And then also defining this property ahead of time.
So something like validation error, like so what you see right here is 100% equivalent to just writing
out.
Private heirs.
Now I still have an air around the constructor.
That is because we are extending a base class.
Whenever we do so and we define the constructor, we have to call super to invoke the constructor inside
the base class, which in this case is air.
So I will call super to fix that.
Now one very, very small thing.
This is a very small technicality.
It only has to be done when we are writing TypeScript and trying to extend a class that is built in
to language.
So we are trying to extend it right here, which is built into the language.
To do so, we have to write out one additional line of code right here.
And I'm going to put a little quick comment that says, only because we are extending a built in class,
we will write out object set prototype of and then this and request validation error dot prototype.
This is just some behind the scenes stuff that gets our class to work correctly again, just because
we are extending a built in class.
Okay.
So now how would we use this class right here?
Well, we would say something like new request, validation, error.
And then we would pass in the list of errors like so we would probably want to throw this as well because
it is intended to be an error.
And then this thing, this instance that we are creating and throwing again should be communicated automatically
down.
So that's like that right there.
It should be communicated down into our error handling middleware.
Now there is one other quick change I'm going to make here.
I'm actually going to update this keyword of private over to public.
We eventually are going to revert it back to private.
I was reading my notes here looking at the final implementation.
We're going to leave it as public for just a moment, but we are going to flip that back over to private
in just a little bit.
Okay.
So we've now got our first custom air put together.
Let's build our other custom air out, which is going to be called database connection air.
It's going to be very similar in nature, but it's going to have this reason property that's going to
be a string instead of reasons that's going to be an array of validation errors.
So inside of my heirs folder, I'm going to create another file called Database Connection Airports.
And then inside of here, we're going to do something very similar.
So we will export a new class called Database Connection Error.
Stevens air.
Firstly not super but constructor.
Inside the constructor we have to call super.
We also have to do that same kind of little initialization line because we are extending a built in
class that will do object set prototype of and then this and database connection.
Air dot prototype.
And then in this case I'm going to hard code in the reason that that we are throwing this error.
So I will put in a fixed reason property right here that says something like error connecting to database.
Now in this case, do we actually have to extend air or something like database connection here?
All we're really trying to communicate in this case is a fixed string, so perhaps it doesn't make a
lot of sense to make a base class.
I just want to give you kind of a counterpoint.
I want to give you a second subclass to create beyond just request validation air.
So we're going to be mostly just focusing on request validation here for right now.
Again, I just want to kind of give you some other air that we could possibly create that might make
sense in an application like this.
Okay.
So now we put these two subclasses together, we're going to import them into the request handler.
And then anytime something goes wrong inside there, we're going to throw either request validation
error or database connection error.
So I'm going to go back over to my sign up route handler.
And then at the top, I'm going to import those two custom subclasses we just put together.
So request.
Validation error.
And database.
Connection, auctioneer.
Okay.
So now we're going to make sure that then rather than throwing a very generic error.
We will instead throw an instance of request, validation or database connection.
So down inside of my implementation, I'm going to find where we check to see if there were any errors
during validation.
I'm going to delete everything inside there.
And replace it with RO new request validation error and I'll pass in our list of errors.
So errors dot array like so.
I'll then do something very similar for the other air right here.
So rather than throwing a very generic air, that doesn't really tell us a lot about what is going on,
well, instead throw a new database connection air.
Like so.
Okay.
So that is step one we have now subclass error created these two very custom errors.
We are throwing them out of our request handler.
They're going to eventually show up inside of our era handling middleware.
And so now the last thing we have to do is add in some code to inspect the incoming error and check
to see if it is an instance of request, validation, error or an instance of database validation error.
And if it is, we can build up our response and send it back to the user appropriately.
So a quick pause right here.
We're going to build this last step out in just a moment.
And all this stuff is going to start to come together very, very quickly.